## Course description

This year's seminar "Advanced Topics in Psycholinguistics" will focus on **experimental pragmatics**. The field of experimental pragmatics combines an interest in the theoretical complexities of language use with the experimental methodologies of psycholinguistics. The course will present a broad survey of recent work in this area that has attempted to apply the methods of experimental psychology to classic issues in theoretical pragmatics. Each class session will include both theoretical and experimental readings on topics such as reference, implicature, and presupposition. The course will be organized primarily around discussion of the assigned readings. Students will develop a research proposal relevant to issues in language use. May be repeated for credit.

## Goals and assessment

To familiarize themselves with the debates in the recently emerging field of experimental pragmatics, students will read and present relevant papers. Students taking the course for two units are expected to read, present, and participate. Students taking the course for four units are additionally expected to submit an original research project proposal that includes a literature overview.

## Schedule

The course will meet Tuesdays from 3-5:50pm in Room 240-201.


## Schedule

| Date        | Topic           | Readings  |
| ------------- | ------------- | ----- |
| 9/25  | Course planning; overview | <ul><li>Grice 1975</li><li>Goodman & Frank 2016</li></ul> |
| 10/02 | Scalar implicature       |  Bott & Noveck 2004, Breheny et al 2006 |
| 10/09 | Said vs implicated; variability across inferences     | Doran et al, van Tiel, Degen 2015   |
| 10/16 | Adjective processing / contrastive inferences    |  Sedivy 1999, Xiang, Grodner & Sedivy 2011   |
| 10/23 | Perspective-taking | Keysar, Brown-Schmidt, Heller, Hawkins |
| 10/30 |  Overinformativeness     | Pechmann, Sedivy, Pogue  |
| 11/06 |  Presupposition    | Tonhauser et al 2013, 2018, Kim et al   |
| 11/13 |  Social meaning    |    |
| 11/20 |  Social meaning      |   |
| 12/04 |      |    |



IMPLICATURE 1
grice 1975
bott & noveck 2004
breheny et al 2006

IMPLICATURE 2
huang & snedeker 2009
grodner et al 2010
degen & tanenhaus 2015

breheny et al 2013


ALTERNATIVES
fox & katzier focus & implicature
nicole gotzner benz solt

PERSPECTIVE-TAKING
keysar
brown-schmidt et al
heller et al


ADJECTIVE PROCESSING / CONTRASTIVE INFERENCES
sedivy 1999
xiang & colleagues


RSA


OVER/INFORMATIVITY
pechmann 1989
sedivy 2003


SOCIAL MEANING?


PRESUPPOSITIONS
kim et al
tonhauser et al 2013, 2018

IMPLICATURE GENERATED BY GRAMMAR?

EMBEDDED IMPLICATURES?

ACQUISITION
frank
barner


PROSODY
Kurumada et al 2015
Ito & Speer 2008
Roettger & Franke


